# Splurthian Chemistry 102
<div class="md"><h1>Description</h1>
<p><a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/dailyprogrammer/comments/4savyr/20160711_challenge_275_easy_splurthian_chemistry/">See Monday's Easy challenge for the rules of element symbols in Splurthian Chemistry.</a></p>
<p>The Splurth Council of Atoms and Atom-Related Paraphernalia has decided to keep their current naming conventions, as listed in the Easy challenge, but to add a preference system. So while there are still 6 valid symbols for the element Iron, the preferred symbol is <code>Ir</code>. The second-most preferred symbol is <code>Io</code>, then <code>In</code>, <code>Ro</code>, <code>Rn</code>, and finally <code>On</code>. A symbol is preferred based on how early in the element name its first letter is, followed by how early its second letter is.</p>
<p>In the case of repeated letters like in <code>Neon</code>, <code>Eo</code> is preferred to <code>En</code>, even though an <code>n</code> is closer to the beginning of <code>Neon</code> than the <code>o</code> is. This is because it's the second <code>n</code> that's used in the symbol <code>En</code>, since the second letter in the symbol must appear after the first.</p>
<p>When the Council receives a new element to add to the table, it chooses the most preferred valid symbol for that element that's not already taken by another element. For instance, if Chlorine were the first element added, then it would get the symbol <code>Ch</code>. If Chromium was added later, it would get the symbol <code>Cr</code>. If Cesium and Cerium were then added, they would get the symbols <code>Ce</code> and <code>Ci</code>. If there are no valid symbols for the new element.... well, that's why the Council needs you.</p>
<h1>Details and examples</h1>
<p>The Council has decided to wipe the table clean and start afresh. The list of <a href="http://pastebin.com/raw/uVyHtMRb">all 366 elements known to Splurthians</a> are set to be assigned a symbol, one by one, in the order in that text file, following the preference rules above.</p>
<p>Determine the symbol assigned to each element in the list. For instance, you should find that Protactinium is assigned <code>Pt</code>, Californium is assigned <code>Cf</code>, and Lionium is assigned <code>Iu</code>.</p>
<p>Find the first element that will not be able to have a symbol assigned, because when you get to it all the valid symbols for it are taken. (You can stop assigning symbols at this point if you like.) Post this element along with your solution, as a check.</p>
<h1>Optional bonus challenge</h1>
<p>Find a way to reorder the elements so that it's possible to get through the entire list, using the preference rules above. Post a link to your reordered list. There are many possible answers.</p>
</div>
