# Stepstring discrepancy
<div class="md"><h1>Description</h1>
<p>Define the <em>discrepancy</em> of a string of any two symbols (I'll use <code>a</code> and <code>b</code>) to be the absolute difference between the counts of each of the two symbols in the string. For example, all of the following strings have a discrepancy of 3: </p>
<pre><code>aaa 
bbb 
abbbb 
aababaa 
baababbababababababbbaabbaaaabaaabbaa 
</code></pre>
<p>Define a <em>stepstring</em> of a string to be any string that can be formed by starting at any position x in the string, stepping through the string n characters at a time, and ending before any position y. In python, this is any string that can be formed using slice notation <code>s[x:y:n]</code>. For example, some stepstrings of the string <code>"abcdefghij"</code> are: </p>
<pre><code>d
defg
acegi
bdfhj
dfh
beh
ai
abcdefghij
</code></pre>
<p>Your problem is, given a string of up to 10,000 characters, find the largest discrepancy of any stepstring of the string. For instance, this string:</p>
<pre><code>bbaaabababbaabbaaaabbbababbaabbbaabbaaaaabbababaaaabaabbbaaa 
</code></pre>
<p>has this string as a stepstring (corresponding to the python slice notation <code>s[4:56:4]</code>): </p>
<pre><code>aaaabaaaaabaa 
</code></pre>
<p>which has a discrepancy of 9. Furthermore, no stepstring has a discrepancy greater than 9. So the correct solution for this string is 9. </p>
<h1>Input Description</h1>
<p>A series of strings (one per line) consisting of <code>a</code> and <code>b</code> characters. </p>
<h1>Output Description</h1>
<p>For each string in the input, output the largest discrepancy of any stepstring of the string. (Optionally, also give the slice notation values corresponding to the stepstring with the largest discrepancy.) </p>
<h1>Sample Input</h1>
<pre><code>bbaaabababbaabbaaaabbbababbaabbbaabbaaaaabbababaaaabaabbbaaa
bbaaaababbbaababbbbabbabababababaaababbbbbbaabbaababaaaabaaa
aaaababbabbaabbaabbbbbbabbbaaabbaabaabaabbbaabababbabbbbaabb
abbabbbbbababaabaaababbbbaababbabbbabbbbaabbabbaaabbaabbbbbb
</code></pre>
<h1>Sample Output</h1>
<pre><code>9
12
11
15
</code></pre>
<h1>Challenge Input:</h1>
<p><a href="http://pastebin.com/raw.php?i=Xt3BV8nK">Download the challenge input here</a>: 8 lines of 10,000 characters each. </p>
<h1>Challenge Output</h1>
<pre><code>113
117
121
127
136
136
138
224
</code></pre>
<h1>Note</h1>
<p>This problem was inspired by <a href="http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn25068-wikipediasize-maths-proof-too-big-for-humans-to-check.html#.Uwa72lK9jAR">a recent mathematical discovery</a>: the longest string for which your program should output 2 is 1,160 characters. Every string of 1,161 characters will yield a result of 3 or more. The proof of this fact was generated by a computer and is 13 gigabytes long!</p>
<h1>Credit</h1>
<p>This challenge was submitted by <a href="/u/Cosmologicon">/u/Cosmologicon</a>. If you have an idea for a challenge, please share it in <a href="/r/dailyprogrammer_ideas">/r/dailyprogrammer_ideas</a>. </p>
</div>
